The London Cycle Hire Scheme (LCHS), managed by Serco Group Plc, is one
of the largest bike sharing schemes in the world, with 815 stations and
over 13,000 bikes. Due to the size and utilisation rate of the system,
Serco faces a major challenge in ensuring adequate supply of bikes at
all locations at all times. Furthermore, the Transport for London (TfL),
which oversees the LCHS, has very strict service commitments, KPI
targets and associated financial penalties. To optimize the mamagement
of such a large scheme, DecisionBrain designed and provided a decision
support tool called the Distribution Planning Optimization (DPO) System.
DPO operates 24hours a day and tackles several complex problems:
forecasting the demand for bikes and docking points, finding the best
inventory levels for all stations at any given time so that demand is
satisfied, building a schedule for Serco operators that are employed in
bike redistribution in order to reach the said best inventory levels at
stations and finally building a schedule for operators in charge of
repairs and maintenance. In this talk, we will illustrate how the
aforementioned problems have been tackled and the solving algorithms
that have been developed. Thanks to DPO, Serco is now able to
consistently meet the service levels required by TfL and has improved
the overall quality and availability of the service, as reported by both
the Serco LCHS Operations team and actual LCHS utilisation data.
